hey everyone we're trying something new
with shorter form content to teach you
important Concepts this is a bit
different than our longer form problem
breakdowns or deep Dives but I'm hoping
you learn something new and it helps you
to grow as an engineer let us know what
you think in the comments if we should
be doing more of this today I want to
make a quick video to walk you through
some of the architecture behind
recommendation systems this isn't going
to be an ml Focus video we'll get to
those later but I wanted to share a few
of the techniques used in modern systems
because they end up being broadly used
in designing systems that both operate
at scale and don't necessarily have
correct answers just to be clear I'm
focusing on the software engineering
side here if you think about
recommendation systems they usually have
a pretty simple objective you have a
user and you want to find all the things
that we might think the user is going to
want this might be YouTube videos or a
buyable item on an e-commerce platform
or social media post or whatever there's
really two big challenges here first how
can we know what the user wants
that seems IL defined and might require
a bunch of different input what do we
know about the items what do we know
about the user what about their
relationships fundamentally this is an
ml problem and I'm going to skip it for
now because it's not the thrust of what
we want to focus on for this video but
the second item is pressing how do we
make this system scale if we have
billions of videos or trillions of posts
how can we possibly find the one the
user actually wants in a reasonable
amount of time this seems like an
especially hard needle in a Hast stack
problem and it is but this isn't about
making a machine learning models run
fast there's more to it let me
illustrate the problem quickly for video
recommendations and then we'll move on
to some solutions if you were to
approach this problem you might start
with a blackbox ml function which takes
a user and a video and tells me how
likely the user is to watch the video in
this case my blackbox outputs a score
after several milliseconds this is an
important building block which will tell
me that a given user will hate this
particular cat video but love evans's
Ticket Master breakdown great with this
function available I can now try to make
my recommendation system let's apply
this function to every video in the
catalog this will give us a score for
every possible video we can then sort
the scores and return the video which is
most likely to be watched but wait
billions of videos means I need to run
through my ml blackbox billions of times
this means I need a ton of time maybe
two weeks to figure out the best video
for them to watch crap that's not going
to work since this is slow maybe we take
it offline let's pre-calculate our
recommendations for each user and then
when they come online we can feed them
out of a cash easy no if we have
millions of item or sorry billions of
items and billions of users suddenly we
need a data center the size of Texas in
order to make recommendations this is
untenable and it's slow I don't want to
wait two weeks after I register for my
Tik Tok videos to start streaming in
okay okay you get the gist so we need to
do a little trickery here and the naive
approach won't work modern
recommendation systems really have three
stages candidate generation ranking and
reranking what we've been talking about
so far is ranking taking a bunch of
videos and applying an ml model to score
them which results in an ordering for us
to return to our clients but ranking
can't really scale to billions of
possibilities as we've just seen it's
just too timec consuming and resource
intensive we need a better way enter
candidate generation candidate
generation is a simple idea we know some
class of videos are much more likely to
be watched than others as an example if
I'm subscribed to Mr Beast it's likely
that I'm going to watch other videos he
creates similarly the most viewed videos
on the platform have very broad appeal
if you wanted a dead simple
recommendation system you just take the
top videos in the platform and feed
those to users on a loop that's still
how radio works today but we can do a
bit better now that we have our ranker
we'll take each of these horis STS that
we just talked about and call them
candidate generators
a candidate generator will take in some
information about the user to generate a
list of candidates or videos we think
the user will want to watch we can Union
together all of the candidates from each
of the candidate generators then we'll
take our ml function we had earlier
which we now call a ranker to score each
of these candidates since we now have
order a thousand rather than a billion
items this is much more tractable the
videos that emerge with the highest
scores are the ones that we want to
recommend and as long as our candidate
generators are reasonably exhaustive
this approximates the much more
expensive system I'll say it again for
emphasis here we're taking some her
istics to cut the problem down and make
it more feasible we don't have to rank
every video ever to get good results
that's the essence of candidate
generation before we move on there's one
other type of candidate generator which
is worth discussing the top videos in
the platform are videos from channels
I've subscribe to are pretty easy to get
we can do this with basic database
queries but how can I build canidate
generators for things like a video
similar to the one I just liked or
videos watched by users like me the
answer to this is to use what are called
embeddings or vector of numbers I'm
going to simplify a bit and invoke the
blackbox of ml here but let's pretend we
have a function which takes in an input
in this case a video and outputs an
embedding or a series of numbers these
numbers are special in that videos with
smaller distance you could think of this
like distance in 3D space here have some
property it could be that we've trained
our model our black box so that videos
which are liked by similar users are
clustered together or we could try to
group them semantically based in their
content like I've done here or we could
try to find videos which irritated the
same people the options are literally
endless what we can see is that the cat
video and dog video have smaller
distance if you calculate the ukian
distance in 3D space then the Cat video
and a chess match they aren't as
semantically similar as the cat video
and the dog video just like before if we
want to find the smallest distance our
most naive approach is to calculate the
distance between our input video and
every other video in the catalog this is
way too slow but it's going to find the
video that is most semantically similar
or liked by similar VI users or whatever
a more efficient way to do this is we
can generate embeddings for our entire
catalog of videos including the new ones
that are created once we have embeddings
we store them in a vector database
popular options here include commercial
offer ings like pine cone or open-
Source Solutions like face or in this
case I want all my videos together with
their embeddings in this database Vector
databases are optimized with algorithms
like hierarchical navigable small worlds
which enable very fast approximate
nearest neighbor sech basically they're
much much faster than trying to
calculate distances on each item with my
database constructed I can queri it so
for videoos similar to the one I just
liked I'll grab the embedding for that
video I just
and query the database for the nearest
neighbors of that embedding this will
return to me the IDS of all the videos
which have embeddings with small
distance to my input in effect my
database now answers which videos are
similar to this one those are my
candidates which I can feed to my ranker
just like I fed the top 100 most viewed
platform videos I can have Separate
Tables or databases for each style of
embedding so I can have a separate
database of users to answer questions
about videos liked by user similar to me
it's common inside ranking and
recommendation systems to have dozens of
these indexes or candidate generators
and managing them is an important
problem for the software Engineers
working on these systems that's
candidate generation now that we've
completed candidate generation and
handwave pass ranking we'll get to that
later let's talk briefly about reranking
there are a lot of behaviors of
recommendation systems that we want to
tweak we probably want to give new
videos a boost so that they get a chance
to get exposure and for us to learn
about them this is fundamental to the
trade-off between exploration and
exploitation we not only want to show
you the video you're most likely to like
but we also want to expand your horizons
a bit we also want to make sure we're
not recommending videos that a user is
blocked or they might be sensitive to
adjusting the full recommendation stack
for each of these use cases would be
really expensive if we needed special
indexes that don't contain videos from
creators the user is blocked that
candidate generator is much less
efficient instead in the reranking phase
we're going to apply tweaks post Hawk if
we need to provide the user with 10
ordered recommendations our ranking
stage might produce 25 and our reranking
stage can reorder or remove based on
business rules privacy settings Etc this
is actually an implementation of a very
common pattern you'll see in Real World
System design and it applies to search
engines privacy Solutions ranking
systems and more sometimes it's easier
to design for the 99% case and have a
layer to budge the final results and
make them how you want rather than build
a system which solves 100% of the
problem I'm going to stop there from
going too long there's obviously a lot
more we can get into let me know if you
want to see more in the comments but
just to recap some key points here we've
covered how a multi-stage architecture
in this case using candidate generation
enables scalability for massive systems
and makes seemingly impossible problems
possible next we showed how you can use
embeddings in Vector search to solve
fuzzy problems cheaply
and finally we showed how production
systems are often layered with fine
grained adjustments applied at the last
level this makes problems more tractable
I hope you found this video valuable and
if you'd like more please subscribe
otherwise until next time talk to you
later